Added deploy with modal. (#1805)
dlt-hub/dlt: docs/website/docs/walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline/deploy-with-modal.md

---
title: Deploy with Modal
description: How to deploy a pipeline with Modal
keywords: [how to, deploy a pipeline, Modal]
canonical: https://modal.com/blog/analytics-stack
---

# Deploy with Modal

## Introduction to Modal

> [Modal](https://modal.com/blog/analytics-stack) is a serverless platform designed for developers. It allows you to run and deploy code in the cloud without managing infrastructure.

Author: Yes, thanks! corrected.

With Modal, you can perform tasks like running generative models, large-scale batch jobs, and job queues, all while easily scaling compute resources.

### Modal features

- Serverless Compute: No infrastructure management; scales automatically from zero to thousands of CPUs/GPUs.
- Cloud Functions: Run Python code in the cloud instantly and scale horizontally.
- GPU/CPU Scaling: Easily attach GPUs for heavy tasks like AI model training with a single line of code.
- Web Endpoints: Expose any function as an HTTPS API endpoint quickly.
- Scheduled Jobs: Convert Python functions into scheduled tasks effortlessly.

To know more, please refer to [Modals's documentation.](https://modal.com/docs)

> ## Building Data Pipelines with `dlt`

Author: Noted, Thanks!

**`dlt`** is an open-source Python library that allows you to declaratively load data sources into well-structured tables or datasets. It does this through automatic schema inference and evolution. The library simplifies building data pipelines by providing functionality to support the entire extract and load process.

> ### How does `dlt` integrate with Modal for pipeline orchestration?

Author: Done.

> ### How does `dlt` integrate with Modal for pipeline orchestration?

Author: Done, thanks!

> To illustrate setting up a pipeline in Modal, we’ll be using the following example: [Building a cost-effective analytics stack with Modal, dlt, and dbt.](https://modal.com/blog/analytics-stack)

Author: Done, thanks!

> The example demonstrates automating a workflow to load data from Postgres to Snowflake using `dlt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example demonstrates automating a workflow to load data from Postgres to Snowflake using dlt.
```

Author: done.

> ## How to run `dlt` on Modal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to run dlt on Modal
```

> Here’s our `dlt` setup copying data from our Postgres read replica into Snowflake:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s a dlt project setup to copy data from our Postgres read replica into Snowflake:
```

Author: updated

> 1. Run the `dlt` SQL database setup to initialize their `sql_database_pipeline.py` template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the `dlt` CLI command to  initialize the SQL database source and setup the `sql_database_pipeline.py` template:
```

Author: updated

Reviewer: Thank you! However, I don't see these changes on GitHub. Is there a chance you haven't pushed the updates to GitHub?

> 1. Run the `dlt` SQL database setup to initialize their `sql_database_pipeline.py` template:

Reviewer: It's also not clear what do we do with `sql_database_pipeline.py`? Are we discarding it? Or we're adding the code below to `sql_database_pipeline.py`?

Author: updated

   ```sh
   dlt init sql_database snowflake
   ```
2. Open the file and define the Modal Image you want to run `dlt` in:
   ```py
   import dlt
   import pendulum

   from sql_database import sql_database, ConnectionStringCredentials, sql_table

   import modal
   import os

   image = (
       modal.Image.debian_slim()
       .apt_install(["libpq-dev"]) # system requirement for postgres driver
       .pip_install(
           "sqlalchemy>=1.4", # how `dlt` establishes connections
           "dlt[snowflake]>=0.4.11",
           "psycopg2-binary", # postgres driver
           "dlt[parquet]",
           "psutil==6.0.0", # for `dlt` logging
           "connectorx", # creates arrow tables from database for fast data extraction
       )
   )

   app = modal.App("dlt-postgres-pipeline", image=image)
   ```

> 3. Wrap the provided `load_table_from_database` with the Modal Function decorator, Modal Secrets containing your database credentials, and a daily cron schedule

Reviewer: If we take `load_table_from_database` from `sql_database_pipeline.py` we should note that. Otherwise it may be unclear.

Author: added the context

   ```py
   # Function to load the table from the database, scheduled to run daily
   @app.function(
       secrets=[
           modal.Secret.from_name("snowflake-secret"),
           modal.Secret.from_name("postgres-read-replica-prod"),
       ],
       # run this pipeline daily at 6:24 AM
       schedule=modal.Cron("24 6 * * *"),
       timeout=3000,
   )
   def load_table_from_database(
       table: str,
       incremental_col: str,
       dev: bool = False,
   ) -> None:
       # Placeholder for future logic
       pass
   ```

> 4. Write your `dlt` pipeline:

Reviewer: Where the user should put the code from this section? Is it still goes to `sql_database_pipeline.py`?

Author: It goes to `sql_database_pipeline.py`

   ```py
   # Modal Secrets are loaded as environment variables which are used here to create the SQLALchemy connection string

>    pg_url = f'postgresql://{os.environ["PGUSER"]}:{os.environ["PGPASSWORD"]}@localhost:{os.environ["PGPORT"]}/{os.environ["PGDATABASE"]}'

Reviewer: Use the dlt-native way to configure connection with environment variables: https://dlthub.com/docs/devel/general-usage/credentials/setup#environment-variables that should eliminate the need of manual connection string construction and usage of `ConnectionStringCredentials`

Author: I added a note at the bottom; I tested it, and it worked for source creds.

Author: I added a note about this in step 3; I tested it, too, and it worked for source creds.

Reviewer 2: hey original author here :). are you saying it's better practice to define the sql connection string as a single env variable and then reassign the env variable in the pipeline? e.g.

1. Set a Modal secret like `POSTGRES_CREDENTIAL_STRING = 'postgresql://sdfsd:sdlfkj'` (this gets mounted as an env variable)
2. In the pipeline, call `os.environ["TASK_SOURCES__SQL_DATABASE__CREDENTIALS"] = os.environ["POSTGRES_CREDENTIAL_STRING"]`?

Reviewer 3: hey @kning! I would say it's a matter of taste, if you prefer string connection, use it, if not, don't, dlt supports both. In this example, I think, Anton wants to show such dlt features as `ConnectionStringCredentials` and the ability to work with ENVs for educational purposes

   snowflake_url = f'snowflake://{os.environ["SNOWFLAKE_USER"]}:{os.environ["SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"]}@{os.environ["SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT"]}/{os.environ["SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE"]}'
   # Create a pipeline
   schema = "POSTGRES_DLT_DEV" if dev else "POSTGRES_DLT"
   pipeline = dlt.pipeline(
       pipeline_name="task",
       destination=dlt.destinations.snowflake(snowflake_url),
       dataset_name=schema,
       progress="log",
   )
   credentials = ConnectionStringCredentials(pg_url)
   # defines the postgres table to sync (in this case, the "task" table)
   source_1 = sql_database(credentials, backend="connectorx").with_resources("task")
   # defines which column to reference for incremental loading (i.e. only load newer rows)
   source_1.task.apply_hints(
       incremental=dlt.sources.incremental(
           "enqueued_at",
           initial_value=pendulum.datetime(2024, 7, 24, 0, 0, 0, tz="UTC"),
       )
   )

    # if there are duplicates, merge the latest values
   info = pipeline.run(source_1, write_disposition="merge")
   print(info)
   ```

> 

Reviewer: Looks like the next step is missing: how this code ends up on Modal? How to trigger runs?

Reviewer 2: This runs the pipeline once, but might be worth adding that you need to run `modal deploy` to actually schedule the pipelin.

## Advanced configuration
### Modal Proxy

If your database is in a private VPN, you can use [Modal Proxy](https://modal.com/docs/reference/modal.Proxy) as a bastion server (only available to Enterprise customers). We use Modal Proxy to connect to our production read replica by attaching it to the Function definition and changing the hostname to localhost:
```py
@app.function(
    secrets=[
        modal.Secret.from_name("snowflake-secret"),
        modal.Secret.from_name("postgres-read-replica-prod"),
    ],
    schedule=modal.Cron("24 6 * * *"),
    proxy=modal.Proxy.from_name("prod-postgres-proxy", environment_name="main"),
    timeout=3000,
)
def task_pipeline(dev: bool = False) -> None:
    pg_url = f'postgresql://{os.environ["PGUSER"]}:{os.environ["PGPASSWORD"]}@localhost:{os.environ["PGPORT"]}/{os.environ["PGDATABASE"]}'
```

### Capturing deletes

> One limitation of our simple approach above is that it does not capture updates or deletions of data. This isn’t a hard requirement yet for our use cases, but it appears that `dlt` does have a [Postgres CDC replication feature](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/verified-sources/pg_replication) that we are considering.

Reviewer: Please use relative links for the pages in the docs. E.g. `./dlt-ecosystem/...`

Author: Thanks @burnash. Updated the link. There's one thing though, the doc is not showing in the GitHub deploy preview here. But when using "npm" locally it shows fine.

To know more, please refer to [Modals's documentation.](https://modal.com/docs)

## Building data pipelines with dlt

dlt is an open-source Python library that allows you to declaratively load data sources into well-structured tables or datasets. It does this through automatic schema inference and evolution. The library simplifies building data pipelines by providing functionality to support the entire extract and load process.

### How does dlt integrate with Modal for pipeline orchestration?

As an example of how to set up a pipeline in Modal, we'll use the [building a cost-effective analytics stack with Modal, dlt, and dbt.](https://modal.com/blog/analytics-stack) case study.

The example demonstrates automating a workflow to load data from Postgres to Snowflake using dlt.

## How to run dlt on Modal

Here’s a dlt project setup to copy data from our Postgres read replica into Snowflake:  

1. Run the `dlt init` CLI command to initialize the SQL database source and set up the `sql_database_pipeline.py` template.
   ```sh
   dlt init sql_database snowflake
   ```
2. Open the file and define the Modal Image you want to run `dlt` in:
   ```py
   import dlt
   import pendulum

>    from sql_database import sql_database, ConnectionStringCredentials, sql_table

Reviewer 2: should probably update this for 1.1.0 right? i.e. `from dlt.sources.sql_database import sql_database import *`.

   # Create a pipeline
   schema = "POSTGRES_DLT_DEV" if dev else "POSTGRES_DLT"
   pipeline = dlt.pipeline(
       pipeline_name="task",
       destination=dlt.destinations.snowflake(snowflake_url),
       dataset_name=schema,
       progress="log",
   )
   credentials = ConnectionStringCredentials(pg_url)
   # defines the postgres table to sync (in this case, the "task" table)
   source_1 = sql_database(credentials, backend="connectorx").with_resources("task")
   # defines which column to reference for incremental loading (i.e. only load newer rows)
   source_1.task.apply_hints(
       incremental=dlt.sources.incremental(
           "enqueued_at",
           initial_value=pendulum.datetime(2024, 7, 24, 0, 0, 0, tz="UTC"),
       )
   )

    # if there are duplicates, merge the latest values
   info = pipeline.run(source_1, write_disposition="merge")
   print(info)
   ```
> It's recommended that any unused functions in `sql_pipeline.py` be cleaned up if they are not required.

5. Run the pipeline on Modal as:
   ```sh
   modal run sql_pipeline.py
   ```

## Advanced configuration
### Modal Proxy

> If your database is in a private VPN, you can use [Modal Proxy](https://modal.com/docs/reference/modal.Proxy) as a bastion server (only available to Enterprise customers). We use Modal Proxy to connect to our production read replica by attaching it to the Function definition and changing the hostname to localhost:

Reviewer 2: These sections sound a bit funny because they're written from the perspective of "us at Modal" (e.g. "We use Modal Proxy...", "One limitation of our simple approach"). Is there a way to rewrite these sections so they are more imperative / directly addressed to the reader? e.g. "To capture deleted rows, check out dlt's CDC replication strategy" or "To sync multiple tables in parallel, use Modal.startmap"
